***ANSWER ALL OF THE QUESTIONS BELOW***

What is a programming language?
Answer:is a set of instructions,written by programmer in a computer,to perform some tasks.

What is a JDK composed of? Define each components?
Answer:the java Runtime Environment(JRE),an interpreter(java),a compiler(javaC),an archiver(jar),
javadoc,and some development tools


What is an IDE?
Answer:is a software application that provides comprehensive facilities to dev for software devlopment,
it consist of a sousrce code editor,build automation tools,and a debugger.

What are some of the most popular Java IDEs available in the market?
Answer:
eclipse IDE/intellij IDEA/Appache NetBeans/Android Studio/Android IDE


Explain the entire java life cycle.
Answer:

What is a class?
Answer:is a template used to create objects and to define object data type and methods

What is an object?
Answer:is an instance of a java class,meaning it is a copy of a specific class

What is the entry point of a Java project?
Answer:the entry point of a java project is the main method

Why is the main() method static?
Answer:so that JVM can call it without creating an instance of the class containing the main method
       so its to make it a class-related method

Which class is the superclass of all classes?
Answer:the object class is the superclass hierarchy,which is presentin java.lnag package
all predefined classes are the subclasses from object class

What is difference between path and classpath variables?
Answer:path is set for java tools in java programs like java and javaC which are used to compile the code
classpath is used by system or application class loader to locate and load compile Jva Bytecodes stored in the class file

What is the difference between an Interface and Abstract class?
Answer:an class can have an state with instance variable
interface can not have state

Can you make an Object from an Interface and Abstract class? If yes or no, how would you do it?
Answer:no, we can not create an object in both interface and abstract class,but we can use pointers and references to abstract
class types

What is Access Modifier?
Answer:is a keyword that can be used to control the visibility of fields,methods and constructors in a class

What is OOP? Define each OOP concept.
Answer:object oriented programming,is to improve code readability and reusability by defining a java program efficiently
the main principles of object oriented programming are abstraction,encapsulation,inheritence,and polymorphism

What is Java Package and which package is imported by default?
Answerjava.lang package and no name package also named default

What is an API? List some API's that you have used so far.
Answer:

Does java support multiple inheritance? Why or why not?
Answer:yes,a class has the ability to implement more than one interface
What is method overloading? List all of the different ways to overload.
Answer:is a feature of java in which a class has more than one method of the same name and their parameters
are diffrent

Explain exceptions in java and how to handle them.
Answer:is an event that accurs during the execution of a program that disrupts the normal flow of the program instruction
by using the try and catch method

What is static keyword? When and how do we use it?
Answer:static is a key owrd that indicates that a particular member is not an instance but rather part of a type
we use it when we want to share a member among all instances of the class,so we create only one instance of it

What is final keyword? When and how do we use it?
Answer:is non access modifier,used for classes,attributes,and methods,which make them non changeable
impossible to inherit or override

Explain the difference between final, finally and finalize?
Answer:final is an access modifier
finally is the block in exception handling
finalize is a method of object class

What is a constructor?
Answer:is used to  create instance of the class.is almost similar to the method except that its name is the name
of the class

Can we have multiple constructors in a class?
Answer:yes

If we don't have a constructor declared, what is called during the object creation?
Answer:a default constructor,created by the class.

What is "this" keyword in Java? When would we use it?
Answer:refers to the current object method or constructor,we use it to eliminate the confusion between class attributes and parameters
with the same name

What is "super" keyword in Java? What are some scenarios we would use it?
Answer:refers to superclass(parent) object,the most common use of super keyword is to eliminate the confusion between
superClasses and and SubClasses that heve methods with the same name

What does JVM stand for?
Answer:

Is JVM platform independent?
Answer:

What version of Java are you using?
Answer:

What does JAR stand for?
Answer:

What is the difference between JDK and JVM?
Answer:

What is the difference between JVM and JRE?
Answer:

Explain the difference between compile-time and run-time?
Answer:

What is heap?
Answer:

How does Java manage its memory?
Answer:

What is the difference between String, StringBuffer and StringBuilder?
Answer:

What is Singleton class?
Answer:

What is Serialization and Deserialization?
Answer:

Explain the difference between While and Do..While loops?
Answer:

What is Enum?
Answer:

What is Iterator?
Answer:

Which one will take more memory: an int or Integer? Why?
Answer:

Why are Strings considered to be immutable in Java?
Answer:

What is constructor chaining in Java?
Answer:

The difference between Serial and Parallel Garbage Collector?
Answer:

What does JIT stands for?
Answer:

Explain the process of Java garbage collection?
Answer:During the garbage collection, Java frees the heap space of those objects which are no longer referenced.
       But if the number of referenced objects keeps on increasing and we don’t deference them
       the JVM runs out of the heap space

Can you guarantee the garbage collection process?
Answer:It is up to the JVM to run the Garbage Collector program.
       When JVM runs the Garbage Collector, the unreachable objects are destroyed.
       But still, we cannot guarantee when the JVM will run. Although we cannot force the GC to execute,
       we can very well request for a Garbage Collection.

What is the difference between stack and heap in Java?
Answer:Heap memory is used by all the parts of the application whereas stack memory is used only by one thread of execution.
       Whenever an object is created, it’s always stored in the Heap space and stack memory contains the reference to it.
       Stack memory only contains local primitive variables and reference variables to objects in heap space.
       Objects stored in the heap are globally accessible whereas stack memory can’t be accessed by other threads.
       Memory management in stack is done in LIFO manner whereas it’s more complex in Heap memory because it’s used globally.
       Heap memory is divided into Young-Generation, Old-Generation etc, more details at Java Garbage Collection.
       Stack memory is short-lived whereas heap memory lives from the start till the end of application execution.
       We can use -Xms and -Xmx JVM option to define the startup size and maximum size of heap memory.
       We can use -Xss to define the stack memory size.
       When stack memory is full, Java runtime throws java.lang.StackOverFlowError whereas if heap memory is full,
       it throws java.lang.OutOfMemoryError: Java Heap Space error.
       Stack memory size is very less when compared to Heap memory.
       Because of simplicity in memory allocation (LIFO), stack memory is very fast when compared to heap memory.


What is reflection in Java and why is it useful?
Answer:is quite powerful and can be very useful.
        Java Reflection makes it possible to inspect classes, interfaces, fields and methods at runtime,
        without knowing the names of the classes, methods etc.
        at compile time. It is also possible to instantiate new objects, invoke methods and get/set field values using reflection

What is multithreading in Java?
Answer:is a process of executing multiple threads simultaneously.
A thread is a lightweight sub-process, the smallest unit of processing.


What is synchronization in Java?
Answer:Synchronization is a Java feature that restricts multiple threads from trying to access the commonly
shared resources at the same time.
class variables or database records. Synchronization is widely used in multithreaded programming.

What is a Framework?
Answer:In computer programming,
       a software framework is an abstract or concrete framework under which software providing
       generic functionality can be selectively changed by additional user-written code,
       thus providing application-specific software.
       It provides a standard way to build and deploy applications and is a universal,
       reusable software environment that provides particular functionality as part of a larger software platform
       to facilitate the development of software applications, products and solutions.
       Software frameworks may include support programs, compilers, code libraries,
       and application programming interfaces (APIs) that bring together all the different components to enable development of a project or system.


What are the testing Frameworks available in Java?
Answer:JUnit/Selenium/Mocha/jasmine/Serenity/JUnit

What are jUnit and testNG?********
Answer:

What are the dependencies for this project?********
Answer:

What is dependency injection in Java?
Answer:dependency injection is a technique in which an object receives other objects that it depends on.
       These other objects are called dependencies.

Explain what static binding and dynamic binding is?
Answer:Binding means an association of method call to the method definition.
       Static and Dynamic Binding in Java. If the compiler maps the method at compile-time, it is Static Binding .
        And, if the method is resolved at runtime, it is Dynamic Binding .