***ANSWER ALL OF THE QUESTIONS BELOW***

Why do we need data structure?
Answer:

What are the various operations that can be performed on different data structures?
Answer:because the datastructure frame the organization of information so that dev/users and machine undrestand it more

When would we use data structures in the real world?
Answer:we use data structure in our life almost every day in multiple tasks and routinessuch as: in online shopping/internet searching/healthcare/Airline planing

What is an Array?
Answer:array is an object that holds a fixed number of value of single dataType.

What is the difference between Array and ArrayList?
Answer:An array is a fixed in length data structureand an arraylist is varible length data structure can be extended or shrink
an array store a one type of data and array list can store data in the form of object wich can be of diffrent type

What is a LinkedList?
Answer:it is a dynamic data structure,whose size increases when we add elements,and decreases when we remove elements,
the linked list stores the data and the address of the data

How is an Array different from LinkedList?
Answer:An array is a grouping data of equivalent type,stored in a contigeous memory location,with a fixed
       size of memory.
       Alinked list is a grp of entities called a node that includes 2 segments(the data and address),linkedList stores
       element randomly at any address of the size can be shrink or extended at runtime

What is a Queue?
Answer:
a queue is an ordered list of elements.
What is a Stack (referring to data structures)?
Answer:is a linear type of data structure that follows the lifo priciple,and allows insertion and deletion
operations from one end of the stack
What is FIFO and LIFO?
Answer:are two techniques of maintaining data in data structure,they also determine the sequence of entry/exit of data
LIFO:last in first out used in stack data structure.
Fifo:first in first oyt used in queue data structure.

Explain Big O Notation?
Answer:is fundamental concept to help us measure the time complexity and space complexity of the algorithm

What is the best case to search an element from an array?
Answer:is O(1)

What is the worst case to search an element from an array?
Answer:O(N)

Describe what a tree data structure is?
Answer:is a collection of node

Describe what a graph data structure is?
Answer:non-linear data structures made up of a finite number of nodes or verttices and the edges that connect them

What is the difference between the HashTable and HashMap?
Answer:hashMap is non-synchronized wherea hashtable is synchronized

How do HashMaps work in Java? How do they store values, and when are they useful?
Answer:it works on hashing algorithm and uses hashCode()methods on key for get and put operation
hashMap uses linked list to store elements these are called bins or brackets
hashmap is used whenever data is stored as key-value pairs,where values can be added,retrieved and deleted using keys
What is ArrayIndexOutOfBoundsException in java? When does it occur?
Answer:one of the most errors in java
accurs when a program attempts to access an invalid index in an array;
an index less then 0 or greater than length of the array
What are the different ways of copying an array into another array?
Answer:
by using for loop/using the clone method/use arraycopy method()/using copyOf() or CopyOfRange() methods

What is DFS and BFS?
Answer:BFS:Breadth First Search,uses the queue to find the shortest path
DFS:Depth First Search uses the Stack to find the shortest path

What is Recursion?
Answer:is a technique of making a function call it self

What are linear and non-linear data Structures?
Answer:in a linear data structure the data elements connect to each other sequentially,a user can transverse each element
through a single run
in a non linear data structure the data elements cinnect to each other hierarchically
,thus,they are present at various levels
Outline different sorting algorithms and their time complexities:

